
KingMaker

4 to 6 players	30+ minutes		Ages 7+

Introduction
You are advisors attempting to become the person behind the curtain that leads and instructs the king. Unfortunately, you are also in the running to become the king! 
As such, you must utilize the machinations at your disposal to build up the popularity of your chosen advisor while avoiding becoming the king or even the ideal ruler yourself. 
However, if you get more notoriety than either the ideal ruler or king then you become Emperor and the advisors can be replaced or ignored.





Game Setup
1.	Place the corresponding player count sun tile in the center of your play area
2.	Each player receives a tile slice and receives a set of goal cards (remove goal cards labeled 5+ in a 4 player game). 
Each player shuffles and deals one goal card to themselves, it is hidden from others but players may look at it at anytime. Place the remaining goal cards back into the box.
3.	The players attach or sync up their tile slice with the sun tile within their reach.
4.	Each player places a meeple on the seven of their tile slice to represent their starting notoriety.
5.	Deal each player influence cards equal to the number of players in the game and deal each player one favor card if that player does not already have one (this process will be repeated each round at the start of the influence phase).
6.	Begin from the first round’s influence phase and continue through the phases listed on the next page until any meeple is in a win condition area during the check phase.
	Whenever a deck is empty, shuffle the discard pile into a new deck and deal.






Game Play
The game is played through three phases:
1)	The Influence – During this phase each player simultaneously places one card from their hand face down into a pile in front of each players’ tile, including their own tile, 
until everyone has given out and received influence cards equal to the number of players.
2)	The Resolution – At the beginning of this phase each player shuffles their influence pile face down. Then, starting with the player with the lowest notoriety, players reveal their top card one player at a time 
in clockwise order. Once revealed the player tells a story about their revealed influence card and then moves their meeple the corresponding number of spaces on their notoriety chart until all cards have been revealed for the turn.
3)	The Check – Based on the placement of meeples the game is either over, due to meeple(s) in the win condition areas, or it will continue to the next round if all meeples are below the threshold of the win condition areas. 
	Favor cards can be revealed, discarded and utilized whenever their respective triggers would occur, most often after a influence card is revealed and a player completes their story. As they are discarded a favor can only be called in once per round. 
Any favor that has you choose a player must be made before the card resolves and may target the one calling in the favor


Ending the Game
The game ends when a meeple is in one of the three win condition areas during the check phase and based on which win condition area the meeple is in, a win is declared by;
	: this means that a King has been found! All players reveal their goal cards and whomever was tasked with making this player King wins the game. If no player was tasked with making this player the King, then the King wins.
	: this means that an ideal ruler has ascended to the throne! All players besides the player whose meeple is in this area win the game. [or everyone loses the game]
	: this means that someone has ascended to Emperor! The meeple to be at this location during the check phase wins the game and everyone else loses.





Ties
Whichever condition area is higher on the board with a meeple on it will resolve first and whomever got their first invokes that win condition. However, there will be ties! 
This is politics, there are not always clear winners and sometimes the status quo is an acceptable reality. 

Strategies
Your primary goal is to match you goal card but you can also distribute influence to try to force a player into the ideal ruler area or if you are particularly bold to push yourself towards Sun Emperor! 
The game’s main mechanics revolve around a give and take focused on influence cards and your and your opponents’ location. As such, it is important to notice everyone’s position before placing your influence cards on others and yourself. 

Choosing Your Own Story
If you would like to tell your own stories about the influence cards rather than stick to the time period and theme of the base game, we have provided a choose your own story card with a few time periods and themes for you to select from in order to have a consistent experience through your storytelling. 



